All right, so we're up to Chapter 6,
and we're at part 6A,
working with max-width media queries.
And if you open up your opening CodePen
here, we are here on Mars, once again.
And this particular layout looks
totally awesome here at 980 pixels,
but really,
not at anything smaller than that.
So it's time to fix this and
make this work at smaller sizes as well.
And we're gonna use desktop media queries
cuz we've already laid this out for
desktop.
And now we're gonna add some
mobile versions to this.
So one of the tricks that I
like using as I start working,
inside of designs like this,
I need to figure out where exactly
am I gonna place my media queries.
And what are the nice features of CodePen
if you see down there at the bottom,
there's a tiny little white pill that
will tell you the size of the screen.
And that is the size of the image
just display over here on the side.
So you can sort of scrub back and
forth until you find a spot where things
kinda look like they need to be updated.
In this case, this is pretty fixed width,
it just starts to scroll off the screen.
So what I am going to say is,
it's gonna be 700 pixels.
This is gonna be a spot where we're
gonna need to start making some changes.
The very first place we need to make
a change is right here on line number 5.
The reason why this is all very,
very static and it scrolls off the screen
is that, we have a fixed width
that's set right here on line 5.
We've just said the width is 980, so
it's never gonna be anything different.
It's never gonna be smaller than 980,
it's never gonna be bigger than 980,
it's always gonna be 980.
Let's change this to max-width of 980.
So it will never get bigger than this,
but it can definitely get smaller.
So as we start making this screen smaller,
then we can decide exactly where we
want that media query to happen.
At some point it starts to
look kind of ridiculous.
Yeah, okay, so
I picked around 700 pixels as I
start to lose details
here in these pictures.
Let's make this a little bit different.
What I'm gonna do is scroll on down
just after style number 5 here.
We'll put in a bunch of returns so
you can see what I'm doing.
And we're gonna set up a media query.
So this is @media.
And then we're going to say
max-width of 700 pixels.
Okay, so in other words,
what does this mean?
If I said cuz you guys have not seen
media queries in action before.
If I said body background-color, red,
what dimension is my body
background color going to turn red?
So if my screen is at 950 pixels, what
color is the background of this web page?
>> Black.
>> Black, if I'm at 702 pixels,
what is the color of this
web page background-color?
>> Black.
>> Black, if I'm at 698 pixels, what
is the background-color of my web page?
>> Red.
>> Red, okay?
Notice that our media queries
come later here in our design,
and that is where this
stuff is gonna be applied.
As I make my screen smaller,
and this is not working because
I have my body background
black down here at the bottom.
And guess what,
it's overriding what I have before.
So if I grab this code here,
I'm going to cut it, and
I'm gonna put this up at
the top of my screen.
Now my media query can override it,
and, whoa, that red is very red, okay?
You're definitely on the red planet now.
Here we go.
Make sense?
So that's how media queries work and
in their simplest format.
I don't know why you would ever
wanna do this, but you can, okay?
So instead of doing that,
we're gonna do something different.
What I wanna do instead is,
I just wanna stack these images
one right on top of the other.
So what might I say inside of my media
query so that when I get to these smaller
dimensions I stack my images
one right on top of the other?
What would I say?
>> Do you do grid container and
change the number of columns?
>> Correct, so I can say, .grid-container.
And then I could just say,
grid-template-columns: 1fr
Okay, I don't have to say all of the other
stuff, I don't have to say display grid.
I don't have to say any of
the other things that I had,
all of that will carry down
from what I had before.
Instead, what I'm going to do
here now is have a single column.
And sure enough, my images stack
on top of each Each other very,
very nicely, except for Mars.
What happened to Mars?
Mars is gone.
So what happened to Mars?
Does anybody have an idea?
Well, remember outside our media query,
we have a whole bunch of these specifics,
right, where we placed
all of these images, and
they're still going to those places.
So Mars is gone because, yeah,
it's somewhere off the screen, entirely.
So to bring Mars back, we're gonna
need to make some changes here.
And what I'm going to do,
I'm gonna copy styles one to five.
And I'm gonna paste them here
into my media query, okay?
And now we can override these.
And probably the easiest way to do this
is just to change my numbers to auto,
because all I wanna do is make these
images stack on top of each other.
So one will become auto,
two will become auto for
the grid-column, auto for the grid-row.
And yes, you can absolutely recombine
a lot of these styles into a single style
that just says grid-row:
auto grid-column: auto.
But for purposes of documentation,
I'm gonna keep these all
broken out separately, but
we could say grid-column: auto.
>> You took one through
five in copy of that.
>> Yep, I took classes one
through five and copied and
pasted them into our media query.
Four will be auto and auto,
five will be auto and auto.
Okay, now let's see if we have five
images now, one, two, three, five,
sure enough, there they all are.
Okay, so when I make my screen bigger,
we go back to our grid based layout where
we have multiple columns and spans.
And when I make this smaller then
they stack on top of each other,
one image after another.
By keeping grid turned
on in this dimension,
we are keeping the ability to reorder
our images this particular way.
Ideally, you're gonna wanna put your
content In mobile order by default.
And the reason why is because
then screen readers and
search engines will come in and
just read that content from top to bottom,
whereas the display of the page, it may
be all over the place in different spots.
But we want our search engines and
our screen readers to be able to read that
content from top to bottom in the order
in which we wish to present it.
Makes sense?
>> Do we care about
portrait versus landscape?
>> Okay, so you mean a media query for
portrait and a media query for landscape?
Is that what we're talking about?
So ideally, what's gonna happen here is
we're very concerned with the width of
the page, because the height of
the page is just scrollable.
So if we have a small, let's say we're
looking at this in portrait mode,
we'll see, I don't know, the first
image in the top of Mars there, and
we'll just be able to keep scrolling
to see the rest of the images, right?
If we're in portrait mode,
we're gonna see just what we see here.
And then we're gonna scroll to
see the rest of the images.